examples/simulation_demo/README.md, before:

# simulation_demo

This tutorial shows how to simulate a simple TAC.

## Demo

- Ensure that you are running an OEF Node on `localhost`, using this command:

```
docker run -it -p 20000:20000 -p 3333:3333 -p 40000:40000 qati/oef-search:latest node no_sh \
    --node_key Search1 \
    --core_key Core1 \
    --search_port 20000 \
    --core_port 3333 \
    --dap_port 30000 \
    --director_api_port 40000
``` 

- Run the simulation example:

      python examples/simulation_demo/tac_agent_spawner.py

#### Visualize data in realtime

- Start a `visdom` server:

      python -m visdom.server 
    
- Run the simulation example with the gui flag to visualize data in realtime
      
      python examples/simulation_demo/tac_agent_spawner.py --gui

and then open `http://localhost:8097` in your browser.

### Optional parameters/flags

For a full list, do `python examples/simulation_demo/tac_agent_spawner.py -h`

- `--nb-agents` is the number of agents to participate in the competition.
- `--nb-goods` is the number of goods in the competition.
- `--nb-baseline-agents` is the number of number of baseline agents to participate in the competition.
- `--oef-addr` and `--oef-port` allow you to specify a different OEF Node to use for the simulation.
- `--register-as` the string indicates whether the baseline agent registers as seller, buyer or both on the oef.
- `--search-for` the string indicates whether the baseline agent searches for sellers, buyers or both on the oef.
- `--uml` specifies whether or not to store the activity of the simulation in PlantUML syntax.
- `--data-output-dir` is the output directory to use for storing simulation data in `${data_output_dir}/${experiment_id}`.
- `--experiment-id` is the name to give to the simulation.
- `--plot` specifies whether to plot a summary of the game.
- `--money-endowment` is the money amount every agent receives.
- `--base-good-endowment` is the base amount of per good instances every agent receives.
- `--lower-bound-factor` is the lower bound factor of a uniform distribution used for generating good instances.
- `--upper-bound-factor` is the upper bound factor of a uniform distribution used for generating good instances.
- `--tx-fee` is the transaction fee.
- `--registration-timeout` is the amount of time (in seconds) to wait for agents to register before attempting to start the competition.
- `--inactivity-timeout` is the amount of time (in seconds) to wait during inactivity until the termination of the competition.
- `--competition-timeout` is the amount of time (in seconds) to wait from the start of the competition until the termination of the competition.
- `--visdom-addr` is the TCP/IP address of the Visdom server
- `--visdom-port` is the TCP/IP port of the Visdom server
- `--gui` is a flag to specify that the gui is live and expecting an event stream.
- `--seed` is the seed for the random module.

Example:

      python examples/simulation_demo/tac_agent_spawner.py 
          --nb-agents 10
          --nb-goods 10
          --nb-baseline-agents 10
          --oef-addr oef.economicagents.com 
          --oef-port 3333
          --service-registration-strategy both
          --uml True
          --data-output-dir data
          --experiment-id my_experiment
          --plot True
          --money-endowment 200
          --base-good-endowment 2
          --lower-bound-factor 1
          --upper-bound-factor 1
          --tx-fee 1
          --registration-timeout 10
          --inactivity-timeout 60
          --competition-timeout 240
          --gui
          --seed 42
      
It generates a `game.json` file in the `${data_output_dir}/${experiment_id}` that can be inspected with a GUI (see `tac/gui`).

### Display UML transition diagram

In order to visualize the UML transition diagram generated by the simulation (if the option `--uml True` has been used), 
you can do the following:

- build the `docker-tac-develop` image:

      ./docker-tac-develop/scripts/docker-build-img.sh
      
- run the image:

      ./docker-tac-develop/scripts/docker-run.sh -- /bin/bash
      
- use the following command:

      python3 -m plantuml `${data_output_dir}/${experiment_id}/diagram.uml`
      
  the output will be printed in the file `diagram.png`.

Commit message:

Beginnings of implementing the cryptographic signing of messages from agents to agents

examples/simulation_demo/README.md, after:

# simulation_demo

This tutorial shows how to simulate a simple TAC.

## Demo

- Ensure that you are running an OEF Node on `localhost`, using this command:

```
docker run -it -p 20000:20000 -p 3333:3333 -p 40000:40000 qati/oef-search:latest node no_sh \
    --node_key Search1 \
    --core_key Core1 \
    --search_port 20000 \
    --core_port 3333 \
    --dap_port 30000 \
    --director_api_port 40000
``` 

- Run the simulation example:

      python examples/simulation_demo/tac_agent_spawner.py

#### Visualize data in realtime

- Start a `visdom` server:

      python -m visdom.server 
    
- Run the simulation example with the gui flag to visualize data in realtime
      
      python examples/simulation_demo/tac_agent_spawner.py --gui

and then open `http://localhost:8097` in your browser.

### Optional parameters/flags

For a full list, do `python examples/simulation_demo/tac_agent_spawner.py -h`

- `--nb-agents` is the number of agents to participate in the competition.
- `--nb-goods` is the number of goods in the competition.
- `--nb-baseline-agents` is the number of number of baseline agents to participate in the competition.
- `--oef-addr` and `--oef-port` allow you to specify a different OEF Node to use for the simulation.
- `--register-as` the string indicates whether the baseline agent registers as seller, buyer or both on the oef.
- `--search-for` the string indicates whether the baseline agent searches for sellers, buyers or both on the oef.
- `--uml` specifies whether or not to store the activity of the simulation in PlantUML syntax.
- `--data-output-dir` is the output directory to use for storing simulation data in `${data_output_dir}/${experiment_id}`.
- `--experiment-id` is the name to give to the simulation.
- `--plot` specifies whether to plot a summary of the game.
- `--money-endowment` is the money amount every agent receives.
- `--base-good-endowment` is the base amount of per good instances every agent receives.
- `--lower-bound-factor` is the lower bound factor of a uniform distribution used for generating good instances.
- `--upper-bound-factor` is the upper bound factor of a uniform distribution used for generating good instances.
- `--tx-fee` is the transaction fee.
- `--registration-timeout` is the amount of time (in seconds) to wait for agents to register before attempting to start the competition.
- `--inactivity-timeout` is the amount of time (in seconds) to wait during inactivity until the termination of the competition.
- `--competition-timeout` is the amount of time (in seconds) to wait from the start of the competition until the termination of the competition.
- `--visdom-addr` is the TCP/IP address of the Visdom server
- `--visdom-port` is the TCP/IP port of the Visdom server
- `--gui` is a flag to specify that the gui is live and expecting an event stream.
- `--seed` is the seed for the random module.

Example:

      python examples/simulation_demo/tac_agent_spawner.py 
          --nb-agents 10
          --nb-goods 10
          --nb-baseline-agents 10
          --oef-addr oef.economicagents.com 
          --oef-port 3333
          --service-registration-strategy both
          --uml True
          --data-output-dir data
          --experiment-id my_experiment
          --plot True
          --money-endowment 200
          --base-good-endowment 2
          --lower-bound-factor 1
          --upper-bound-factor 1
          --tx-fee 1
          --registration-timeout 10
          --inactivity-timeout 60
          --competition-timeout 240
          --gui
          --seed 42
      
It generates a `game.json` file in the `${data_output_dir}/${experiment_id}` that can be inspected with a GUI (see `tac/gui`).

### Scalability

We can confirm that the simulation runs successfully on a MacBook Pro (13-inch, 2017, 3.1 GHz Intel Core i5, 16 GB 2133 MHz LPDDR3) with 60 agents and 10 goods. Higher number of agents cause issues with threading.

### Display UML transition diagram

In order to visualize the UML transition diagram generated by the simulation (if the option `--uml True` has been used), 
you can do the following:

- build the `docker-tac-develop` image:

      ./docker-tac-develop/scripts/docker-build-img.sh
      
- run the image:

      ./docker-tac-develop/scripts/docker-run.sh -- /bin/bash
      
- use the following command:

      python3 -m plantuml `${data_output_dir}/${experiment_id}/diagram.uml`
      
  the output will be printed in the file `diagram.png`.
